README.md, before:

# p2install

The idea of this repo is to generalise the speedrunning install process for Portal 2 and its mods as much as possible.

Once the launch option is added, almost everything will be automatically installed.

Credit goes to mlugg for the original Linux script this has been adapted from.

## Launch options

On Windows, the following launch option now works for all (supported) games and mods:

> **[path to]**/.p2-common/portal2.bat %command%

For Linux, you still need to specify the game as seen below for now.

|            Game            | Launch option
| -------------------------- | -------------
| Aperture Tag               | **[path to]**/.p2-common/portal2.bat aperturetag %command%
| Portal 2                   | **[path to]**/.p2-common/portal2.bat portal2 %command%
| Portal 2 Speedrun Mod      | **[path to]**/.p2-common/portal2.bat "**[path to]**\\sourcemods\\Portal 2 Speedrun Mod" %command%
| Portal Reloaded            | **[path to]**/.p2-common/portal2.bat portal2 %command%
| Portal Stories: Mel        | **[path to]**/.p2-common/portal2.bat portal_stories %command%
| Thinking with Time Machine | **[path to]**/.p2-common/portal2.bat TWTM %command%

## Stuff I'm leaving here for my records

Windows %command% is generally:
> "**[path to]**\\common\\**[game]**\\portal2.exe" **[args]**

Linux %command% is generally:
> "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/reaper" SteamLaunch AppId=**[appid]** -- "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam-launch-wrapper" -- "**[path to]**/common/**[game]**/**[gameexec]**" **[args]**

Linux %command% with Proton is generally:
> "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/reaper" SteamLaunch AppId=**[appid]** -- "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam-launch-wrapper" -- "**[path to]**/common/SteamLinuxRuntime_sniper/_v2-entry-point" --verb=waitforexitandrun -- "**[path to]**/common/Proton - Experimental/proton" waitforexitandrun "**[path to]**/common/**[game]**/**[gameexec]**" **[args]**

|            Game            | %command% Windows                                                                                                      | %command% Linux                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | %command% Linux Proton
| -------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---
| Aperture Tag               |"**[path to]**\common\Aperture Tag\portal2.exe" -game aperturetag -steam                                                | "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/reaper" SteamLaunch AppId=280740  -- "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam-launch-wrapper" -- "**[path to]**/common/Aperture Tag/portal2_linux" -game aperturetag -steam                                            | "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/reaper" SteamLaunch AppId=280740  -- "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam-launch-wrapper" -- "**[path to]**/common/SteamLinuxRuntime_sniper/_v2-entry-point" --verb=waitforexitandrun -- "**[path to]**/common/Proton - Experimental/proton" waitforexitandrun "**[path to]**/common/Aperture Tag/portal2.exe" -game aperturetag -steam
| Portal 2                   |"**[path to]**\common\Portal 2\portal2.exe" -game portal2 -steam                                                        | "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/reaper" SteamLaunch AppId=620     -- "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam-launch-wrapper" -- "**[path to]**/common/Portal 2/portal2.sh" -game portal2 -steam                                                       | "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/reaper" SteamLaunch AppId=620     -- "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam-launch-wrapper" -- "**[path to]**/common/SteamLinuxRuntime_sniper/_v2-entry-point" --verb=waitforexitandrun -- "**[path to]**/common/Proton - Experimental/proton" waitforexitandrun "**[path to]**/common/Portal 2/portal2.exe" -game portal2 -steam
| Portal 2 Speedrun Mod      |"**[path to]**\common\Portal 2\portal2.exe" -game portal2 -steam -game "**[path to]**\sourcemods\Portal 2 Speedrun Mod" | "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/reaper" SteamLaunch AppId=620     -- "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam-launch-wrapper" -- "**[path to]**/common/Portal 2/portal2.sh" -game portal2 -steam -game "**[path to]**/sourcemods/Portal 2 Speedrun Mod"| "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/reaper" SteamLaunch AppId=620     -- "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam-launch-wrapper" -- "**[path to]**/common/SteamLinuxRuntime_sniper/_v2-entry-point" --verb=waitforexitandrun -- "**[path to]**/common/Proton - Experimental/proton" waitforexitandrun "**[path to]**/common/Portal 2/portal2.exe" -game portal2 -steam -game "**[path to]**/sourcemods/Portal 2 Speedrun Mod"
| Portal Reloaded            |"**[path to]**\common\Portal Reloaded\portal2.exe" +r_hunkalloclightmaps 0                                              | "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/reaper" SteamLaunch AppId=1255980 -- "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam-launch-wrapper" -- "**[path to]**/common/Portal Reloaded/portal2.sh" -game portal2 -steam +r_hunkalloclightmaps 0 +r_dynamic 0           | "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/reaper" SteamLaunch AppId=1255980 -- "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam-launch-wrapper" -- "**[path to]**/common/SteamLinuxRuntime_sniper/_v2-entry-point" --verb=waitforexitandrun -- "**[path to]**/common/Proton - Experimental/proton" waitforexitandrun "**[path to]**/common/Portal Reloaded/portal2.exe" +r_hunkalloclightmaps 0
| Portal Stories: Mel        |"**[path to]**\common\Portal Stories Mel\portal2.exe" -game portal_stories -steam -condebug                             | "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/reaper" SteamLaunch AppId=317400  -- "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam-launch-wrapper" -- "**[path to]**/common/Portal Stories Mel/portal2.sh" -game portal_stories -steam                                      | "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/reaper" SteamLaunch AppId=317400  -- "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam-launch-wrapper" -- "**[path to]**/common/SteamLinuxRuntime_sniper/_v2-entry-point" --verb=waitforexitandrun -- "**[path to]**/common/Proton - Experimental/proton" waitforexitandrun "**[path to]**/common/Portal Stories Mel/portal2.exe" -game portal_stories -steam -condebug
| Thinking with Time Machine |"**[path to]**\common\Thinking with Time Machine\portal2.exe" -game TWTM -steam                                         | "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/reaper" SteamLaunch AppId=286080  -- "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam-launch-wrapper" -- "**[path to]**/common/Thinking with Time Machine/TWTM.sh" -game TWTM -steam                                           | "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/reaper" SteamLaunch AppId=286080  -- "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam-launch-wrapper" -- "**[path to]**/common/SteamLinuxRuntime_sniper/_v2-entry-point" --verb=waitforexitandrun -- "**[path to]**/common/Proton - Experimental/proton" waitforexitandrun "**[path to]**/common/Thinking with Time Machine/portal2.exe" -game TWTM -steam

Commit message:

fix: one launch arg for all linux
linux:
full overhaul of script
installing gameinfo, 1080 crosshair, controller ihud, common cfg override other cfg
making .dirs, .tas, .crash_reports, .demos folders, commonizing console.log and svars_persist, platform.cfg
dont break proton
log to p2install.log
more to do!

windows: WIP
fix P2DIR -> P2PATH
installing 1080 crosshair, controller ihud
making .dirs folder, commonizing console.log, platform.cfg
log to p2install.log

README.md, after:

# p2install

The idea of this repo is to generalise the speedrunning install process for Portal 2 and its mods as much as possible.

Once the launch option is added, almost everything will be automatically installed.

Credit goes to [@mlugg](https://github.com/mlugg) for the original Linux script this has been adapted from.

## Installation

1. Download the source code of the repository (green `Code` button -> `Download Zip`)

2. Extract the zip file to a folder of your choice

3. Go to the game's properties in steam and set the following launch option: (replacing **[path to]** with the path to the folder you extracted the zip to)

    > **[path to]**/p2install/portal2.bat %command%

4. Launch the game

## Stuff I'm leaving here for my records

### You don't need to read any of this stuff! It's just some documentation about how Steam launches the games and mods

Windows %command% is generally:
> "**[path to]**\\common\\**[game]**\\portal2.exe" **[args]**

Linux %command% is generally:
> "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/reaper" SteamLaunch AppId=**[appid]** -- "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam-launch-wrapper" -- "**[path to]**/common/**[game]**/**[gameexec]**" **[args]**

Linux %command% with Proton is generally:
> "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/reaper" SteamLaunch AppId=**[appid]** -- "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam-launch-wrapper" -- "**[path to]**/common/SteamLinuxRuntime_sniper/_v2-entry-point" --verb=waitforexitandrun -- "**[path to]**/common/Proton - Experimental/proton" waitforexitandrun "**[path to]**/common/**[game]**/**[gameexec]**" **[args]**

|            Game            | %command% Windows                                                                                                      | %command% Linux                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | %command% Linux Proton
| -------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---
| Aperture Tag               |"**[path to]**\common\Aperture Tag\portal2.exe" -game aperturetag -steam                                                | "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/reaper" SteamLaunch AppId=280740  -- "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam-launch-wrapper" -- "**[path to]**/common/Aperture Tag/portal2_linux" -game aperturetag -steam                                            | "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/reaper" SteamLaunch AppId=280740  -- "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam-launch-wrapper" -- "**[path to]**/common/SteamLinuxRuntime_sniper/_v2-entry-point" --verb=waitforexitandrun -- "**[path to]**/common/Proton - Experimental/proton" waitforexitandrun "**[path to]**/common/Aperture Tag/portal2.exe" -game aperturetag -steam
| Portal 2                   |"**[path to]**\common\Portal 2\portal2.exe" -game portal2 -steam                                                        | "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/reaper" SteamLaunch AppId=620     -- "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam-launch-wrapper" -- "**[path to]**/common/Portal 2/portal2.sh" -game portal2 -steam                                                       | "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/reaper" SteamLaunch AppId=620     -- "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam-launch-wrapper" -- "**[path to]**/common/SteamLinuxRuntime_sniper/_v2-entry-point" --verb=waitforexitandrun -- "**[path to]**/common/Proton - Experimental/proton" waitforexitandrun "**[path to]**/common/Portal 2/portal2.exe" -game portal2 -steam
| Portal 2 Speedrun Mod      |"**[path to]**\common\Portal 2\portal2.exe" -game portal2 -steam -game "**[path to]**\sourcemods\Portal 2 Speedrun Mod" | "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/reaper" SteamLaunch AppId=620     -- "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam-launch-wrapper" -- "**[path to]**/common/Portal 2/portal2.sh" -game portal2 -steam -game "**[path to]**/sourcemods/Portal 2 Speedrun Mod"| "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/reaper" SteamLaunch AppId=620     -- "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam-launch-wrapper" -- "**[path to]**/common/SteamLinuxRuntime_sniper/_v2-entry-point" --verb=waitforexitandrun -- "**[path to]**/common/Proton - Experimental/proton" waitforexitandrun "**[path to]**/common/Portal 2/portal2.exe" -game portal2 -steam -game "**[path to]**/sourcemods/Portal 2 Speedrun Mod"
| Portal Reloaded            |"**[path to]**\common\Portal Reloaded\portal2.exe" +r_hunkalloclightmaps 0                                              | "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/reaper" SteamLaunch AppId=1255980 -- "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam-launch-wrapper" -- "**[path to]**/common/Portal Reloaded/portal2.sh" -game portal2 -steam +r_hunkalloclightmaps 0 +r_dynamic 0           | "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/reaper" SteamLaunch AppId=1255980 -- "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam-launch-wrapper" -- "**[path to]**/common/SteamLinuxRuntime_sniper/_v2-entry-point" --verb=waitforexitandrun -- "**[path to]**/common/Proton - Experimental/proton" waitforexitandrun "**[path to]**/common/Portal Reloaded/portal2.exe" +r_hunkalloclightmaps 0
| Portal Stories: Mel        |"**[path to]**\common\Portal Stories Mel\portal2.exe" -game portal_stories -steam -condebug                             | "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/reaper" SteamLaunch AppId=317400  -- "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam-launch-wrapper" -- "**[path to]**/common/Portal Stories Mel/portal2.sh" -game portal_stories -steam                                      | "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/reaper" SteamLaunch AppId=317400  -- "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam-launch-wrapper" -- "**[path to]**/common/SteamLinuxRuntime_sniper/_v2-entry-point" --verb=waitforexitandrun -- "**[path to]**/common/Proton - Experimental/proton" waitforexitandrun "**[path to]**/common/Portal Stories Mel/portal2.exe" -game portal_stories -steam -condebug
| Thinking with Time Machine |"**[path to]**\common\Thinking with Time Machine\portal2.exe" -game TWTM -steam                                         | "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/reaper" SteamLaunch AppId=286080  -- "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam-launch-wrapper" -- "**[path to]**/common/Thinking with Time Machine/TWTM.sh" -game TWTM -steam                                           | "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/reaper" SteamLaunch AppId=286080  -- "**[path to]**/Steam/ubuntu12_32/steam-launch-wrapper" -- "**[path to]**/common/SteamLinuxRuntime_sniper/_v2-entry-point" --verb=waitforexitandrun -- "**[path to]**/common/Proton - Experimental/proton" waitforexitandrun "**[path to]**/common/Thinking with Time Machine/portal2.exe" -game TWTM -steam
